In the past, Kubernetes used Docker alone as the container runtime engine and all the code to work with Docker was embedded within the K8s source code. With other container runtimes coming in, such as rkt and cri-o, it was important to open up and extend support to work with different 
container runtimes and not be dependent on the Kubernetes source code. And that's how container runtime interface came to be. The container runtime interface is a standard that defines how an orchestration solution like Kubernetes would communicate with container runtimes like Docker. So, in the future, if any container runtime interface is developed, they can simply follow the CRI standards and that new container runtime would work with Kubernetes without really having to work with the Kubernetes team of developers or touch the Kubernetes source code. The container storage interface was developed to support multiple storage solutions. With CSI, you can now write your own drivers for your own storage to work with Kubernetes. Note that CSI is not a Kubernetes specific standard. It is meant to be a universal standard, and if implemented, allows any container orchestration tool to work with any storage vendor with a supported plugin. Currently Kubernetes, CloudFoundry, and Mesos are on board with CSI. The CSI defines a set of risks or remote procedure calls that will be called by the container orchestrator and these must be implemented by the 
storage drivers. For example, CSI says that when a pod is created and requires a volume, the container orchestrator, in this case Kubernetes, should call the CreateVolume RPC and pass a set of details such as the volume name. The storage driver should implement this RPC and handle that request and provision a new volume on the storage array and return the results of the operation. Similarly, container orchestrator should call the DeleteVolume RPC, when a volume is to be deleted and the storage driver should implement the code to decommission the volume from the array when that call is made. And the specification details exactly what parameters should be sent by the color.
