Kubernetes is a container orchestrator originally developed at Google and open-sourced and donated to the CNCF in 2014. 
It was the first project to graduate the CNCF and is now the industry-standard orchestrator and second biggest project on GitHub. 
It can also orchestrate virtual machines and serverless functions. A Kubernetes cluster consists of one or more control plane 
nodes and one or more worker nodes. Control plane nodes run the API server, cluster store, scheduler, controllers, and the API itself. 
Worker nodes are where user applications run and have a kubelet, container runtime, and kube-proxy. The API server exposes the API over 
a RESTful HTTPS interface and requires highperformance control plane nodes. All internal and external Kubernetes traffic goes through 
the API server. The cluster store is the only stateful part of the control plane and is where the state of the cluster and applications 
is persisted. The scheduler assigns pods to worker nodes, and controllers ensure the observed state of the cluster always matches 
desired state. Every worker node runs a kubelet that watches the API server for new work and tells the container runtime which containers 
to start and stop. The kube-proxy implements networking rules to ensure traffic to Kubernetes services reaches the right pods and containers.
Namespaces are a great way to divide a single cluster into virtual clusters for sharing between different teams and departments. Every namespace 
can have its own resource quotas and user accounts, but you shouldn’t use them as workload boundaries. Finally, Kubernetes uses 3rd party plugins 
to implement an open flat pod network that you should lock down with network policies.

Pods are the atomic unit of scheduling on Kubernetes. Developers write applications, package them as containers, and then wrap those containers 
in pods to run on Kubernetes. A Pod can wrap one or more containers, and all containers in a pod are guaranteed to be scheduled on the same node. 
The pod also acts as a shared execution environment for containers. This means two containers in the same pod have access to the same volumes and 
networking. If you want to scale an app, you add more pods.

The multi-container pod model usually has a main application container and a helper container. The helper container is called a sidecar and has 
enabled powerful patterns and innovations. For example, service mesh technologies work by injecting a sidecar container into the same pod as 
applications containers. The sidecar can intercept all network traffic and transparently encrypt and decrypt it. It can also expose rich network 
telemetry that can be used to better understand and optimize traffic flow. Many other solutions use sidecars.
